If you look at the solar system,
we basically have eight planets that
you know, everybody knows their names.
And as you look at other stars around the Sun,
it turns out that pretty much every star has a planet.
So we call the these planets exoplanets:
planets outside the solar system.
The most successful way to discover exoplanets
is the transit method in which
planets go in front of the star
and the light coming from the star
drops by about 1%. And that's how
you know that there is a planet there.
The transiting method is a very powerful method,
because if we can get enough precision
in the measurement of that transit,
you can actually answer questions like:
What are these planets made of?
And the way we do this is
the light that we collect from that star
while the planet is going in front of it,
we use things like prisms and we split
that light into different colors.
So by looking at how the depth of the
transit changes as a function of color
we can detect a number of chemical
elements and molecules
in the atmosphere of the planet,
such as sodium, potassium,
water, and other molecules.
Hot Jupiters are this very peculiar type of planet
which is they are about the same size
of our own Jupiter,
sometimes a little bit bigger,
sometimes a little bit smaller,
but around that size.
But the cool thing about these systems is that they
orbit very, very close to their host star.
A typical hot Jupiter goes around once every three days.
There's nothing like this in the solar system.
This is new science.
The second good thing about
Hot Jupiters is that they
are very easy to observe.
And I say that they are very easy now.
30 years ago, it was difficult, but now it's easy.
So we can get very, very large signals and
we can measure very, very precisely
the properties of these planets
With this technique, we can observe
molecules such as water,
and elements such as potassium and sodium.
So why sodium and potassium?
You can learn a lot about
how that planet was born and
how it became a Hot Jupiter.
That planet, most likely, started farther out
in that system, and somehow it migrated in,
and as it migrated in, it was collecting
sodium and potassium from dust grains
on the disk where the planet formed.
With the launch of the James Webb Telescope,
we're now witnessing a revolution in this field.
Some of these molecules that we can now
observe in the right environment could be
signs of life producing those molecules in these planets.
This is what we call
"bio-signatures" or "bio-markers."
For example, if you look at Earth, we know that
there are certain molecules on Earth
that are produced by life.
We know that there is oxygen,
we know that there is methane,
and those molecules would not be
stable in Earth's atmosphere
if there wasn't some kind of organism
producing them.
And in addition to that, we will
have to look at at other properties of the planet.
We will have to look at whether the planet
is rocky or not, i.e., the density.
We will have to look at the temperature of the planet.
We will have to look at
the ultraviolet radiation coming from the star
to see if life can survive.
So once we put all these pieces together,
I do believe that we will find life somewhere.
It's not going to be easy,
but I do believe that we will do it.
So now, it's your turn to apply
what you have learned about spectroscopy
to exoplanet atmospheric spectra
and propose what molecule or molecules
you want to search for in real JWST data.